Vivaverse...
How should we call this thing in Estonian?
It's better not to name the evil thing by its name.
Something has broken in the last couple of decades.
The cultural layer that took millennia to form
has suddenly been almost obliterated overnight.
Maybe it's due to the rapid
technological development,
or perhaps globalization,
maybe it's the crazy wanderlust
that has gripped all of humanity.
As soon as one can travel to the other side of the world
or delve into the depths of the internet,
no one wants to be where they should truly be.
And the result is here -
suddenly, nationality is no longer important.
You may ask who is spouting such nonsense,
but they are talking... they are talking.
They speak out against song festivals,
undermine unity, national identity,
proclaim some kind of integration.
Until you teach wolves to eat cabbage,
don't talk to me about damn integration.
Cultural abundance, using the example of the USA -
Alright, yes, the USA is a mighty country.
There are 300 million people there, but
only 2% of them are natives.
Alright, I understand, I understand.
In American terms, 2% is indeed 5.2 million inhabitants,
and that's a huge number compared to Estonia.
But there are fewer of us,
and we have survived all the hardships.
Many peoples around us,
like the mighty Livonians,
have been wiped off the world map by invaders,
but they haven't beaten us yet.
Due to the Northern War and the plague,
how many of us were left by the early 18th century?
Many? - 120 thousand.
150 thousand, a little more...
150 thousand! In the early 18th century.
It wasn't very long ago, just now.
And we are still here!
And I ask, how is this possible?
Thanks to our roots.
As soon as the ice sheet retreated from Estonian lands,
our forebears settled our land.
So, our roots and memory
are 11 thousand years old.
As one of the few indigenous peoples in Europe,
we have maintained over this long period
consistency.
In Estonia, viable ethnic communities have also survived,
such as the... Setos,
Saaremaa islanders, Hiiumaa islanders, Mulks.
00:03
And this comes from a trick we've learned
over centuries:
Let's become Europeans, but remain Estonians.
Estonians adapt externally, not internally.
And that has helped us, an ancient European
indigenous people, remain independent.
I don't want to forbid or command anyone here.
I just want to remind
what a privilege it is to be Estonian.
It's an honor.
It's like winning the lottery -
1.4 million out of 8 billion people.
And I understand, the heart is blind -
sometimes, one falls in love with non-Estonians,
creates cosmopolitan families,
spends long winters in Tenerife.
But we need Estonians here, in Estonia.
And I want to recognize and support
every young Estonian family
that has made the decision to stand for Estonian culture
and the land of Estonia.
Dear friends! So that it stays this way,
take out your smartphones again,
I will activate a questionnaire for you.